Ship Overlay v2 (#3456)
adobe/spectrum-web-components: packages/overlay/imperative-api.md

## Description

While an `<sp-overlay>` element is the recommended entry point to the Spectrum Web Components Overlay API, you can also interact with this set of features via an imperative API, `Overlay.open`.

### Usage

[![See it on NPM!](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@spectrum-web-components/overlay?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@spectrum-web-components/overlay)
[![How big is this package in your project?](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@spectrum-web-components/overlay?style=for-the-badge)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=@spectrum-web-components/overlay)

```
yarn add @spectrum-web-components/overlay
```

Import the `Overlay` class to leverage its capabilities within your application or custom element:

```js
import { Overlay } from '@spectrum-web-components/overlay';
```

Primarily, this class gives you access to the `open` method that will allow you to open an overlay:

```js
Overlay.open(
    (overlayElement: HTMLElement), // the element that will be projected into the overlay, "content",
    (options?: OverlayOptions)
);
```

> `Overlay.open()` is an asynchronous method that returns an `<sp-overlay>` element that wraps the `HTMLElement` provided as the `overlayElement`. While this process will set the `<sp-overlay>` element to `open`, consumers of this API will need to chose where to append this element to the DOM in order for the content to be made available in the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Overlay.open()` is an asynchronous method that returns an `<sp-overlay>` element that wraps the `HTMLElement` provided as the `overlayElement`. While this process will set the `<sp-overlay>` element to `open`, consumers of this API will need to choose where to append this element to the DOM in order for the content to be made available in the browser.
```

```js
(async () => {
    const content = document.querySelector('#content');
    const options = {
        offset: 0,
        placement: 'bottom',
        trigger: document.querySelector('#trigger'),
        type: 'auto',
    };
    const overlay = await Overlay.open(content, options);
    document.body.append(overlay);
})();
```

> Keep in mind that a changing DOM tree can update the relationship between existing content and the CSS that you have applied to it when appending the `<sp-overlay>` element to your existing DOM.

Reviewer: Should we also warn about the other things that break like event bubbling & query selectors?

## OverlayOptions

When leveraging `Overlay.open()`, you can provide an optional second argument of `OverlayOptions`, with the following type:

```ts
type OverlayOptions = {
    delayed?: boolean;
    notImmediatelyClosable?: boolean;
    offset?: number | [number, number];
    placement?: Placement;
    receivesFocus?: 'auto' | 'true' | 'false';
    trigger?: HTMLElement | VirtualTrigger;
    type?: 'modal' | 'page' | 'hint' | 'auto' | 'manual';
};
```

### delayed

> An Overlay that is `delayed` will wait until a warm-up period has completed before opening. Once the warmup period has completed, all subsequent Overlays will open immediately. When no Overlays are opened, a cooldown period will begin. Once the cooldown has completed, the next Overlay to be opened will be subject to the warm-up period if provided that option.

Reviewer: Are the warmup & cooldown periods fixed, & specified by SWC / Spectrum? If so, we should note that here.

### notImmediatelyCloseable

> When an Overlay is `notImmediatelyCloseable` that means that the first interaction that would lead to the closure of the Overlay in question will be ignored. This is useful when working with non-"click" mouse interactions, like `contextmenu`, where the trigger event (e.g. `contextmenu`) occurs _before_ an event that would close said overlay (e.g. `pointerup`).

Reviewer: 👍 good example, otherwise I'd be scratching my head about the motivation

### offset

The `offset` property accepts either a single number, to define the offset of the Overlay along the main axis from the trigger, or 2-tuple, to define the offset along the main axis and the cross axis. This option has no effect when there is no trigger element.

### placement

> A `placement` of `"auto" | "auto-start" | "auto-end" | "top" | "bottom" | "right" | "left" | "top-start" | "top-end" | "bottom-start" | "bottom-end" | "right-start" | "right-end" | "left-start" | "left-end"` will instruct the Overlay where to place itself in relationship to the trigger element.

Reviewer 2: Just a side note - can you pls either link to the explanation of placement options or add some details here? I am personally interested in more details about those "auto*" options. Thx!

Author: `auto` may not be a part of the default API anymore, but I'll get a link to https://floating-ui.com/docs/computePosition#placement somewhere in there.

### receivesFocus

Some Overlays will always be passed focus (e.g. modal or page Overlays). When this is not true, the `receivesFocus` option will inform the API whether to attempt to pass focus into the Overlay once it is open. `'true'` will pass focus, `'false'` will not (when possible), and `"auto"` (the default), will make a decision based on the `type` of the Overlay.

### trigger

> The `trigger` option accepts an `HTMLElement` or a `VirtualTrigger` from which to position the Overlay.

Reviewer: Several of these options reference a trigger. Should we specify here the side-effects of not providing a trigger, with an example of why you'd use or not use one?

### type

The `type` of an Overlay outlines a number of things about the interaction model within which is works.

-   `'modal'` Overlays are opened with the `showModal()` method on a `<dialog>` element, which causes the Overlay to accept focus and trap the tab stop within the content of said Overlay.
-   `'page'` Overlays will act in a similar manner to a `'modal'` Overlay, however they will not be allowed to close via the "light dismiss" algorithm (e.g. the Escape key).

> -   `'hint'` Overlays are much like tooltips so they are not just ephemeral, but they are delivered primarily as a visual helper and exist outside of the tab order. In this way, be sure _not_ be palce interactive content within this type of Overlay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `'hint'` Overlays are much like tooltips so they are not just ephemeral, but they are delivered primarily as a visual helper and exist outside of the tab order. In this way, be sure _not_ to place interactive content within this type of Overlay.
```

-   `'auto'` Overlays provide a place for content that is ephemeral _and_ interactive. These Overlays can accept focus but will close when losing that focus, or when interacting with other parts of the page.

> -   `'manual'` Overlays act much like `"auto"` Overlays, but do not close when losing focus or interacting with other parts of the page. When a `"manual"` Overlay is at the top of the "overlay stack", it will still respond to the Escape key and close.

Reviewer 2: I really like that detailed explanation here, makes it easier to distinguish then before.
